docs/specs/settings-and-permissions.md, before:

Settings and Permissions
========================

Settings Storage
----------------

Each application keeps it's settigns as YAML file as `config/defaults.yml`. To
keep files "clean" enough you can "extract" some parts as external files. For
example let's say you have file `config/policies.yml` with following contents:

``` yaml
allow_delete_thread: false
allow_change_topic:  true
```

Now you can add it into your `config/defaults.yml` as follows:

``` yaml
secret: d34dc0de
policies: !include policies.yml
```

So the resulting config will become:

``` yaml
secret: d34dc0de
policies:
  allow_delete_thread: false
  allow_change_topic:  true
```


Structure of Settings
---------------------

Each settings consist of:

* name, string, e.g. `max_open_posts`
* value, mixed type

Value of each settigns may be:

* boolean
* string
* integer
* array

Value may be complex object as well, e.g.:

``` yaml
allow_delete_post:
  must_be_owner: true
  during_period: 30 mins
  must_be_last_post: true
```

By default latest definition overrides previous one. But sometimes you need
completely remove value, for this purpose use delete tag:

``` yaml
allow_delete_post: !delete
```

_NOTICE_ Value of `!delete` tag is not used at all, so these two variants are
absolutely equal:

``` yaml
allow_delete_post: !delete true
allow_hang_the_dj: !delete false
```


Defining Permissions
--------------------

Permissions are precompiled functions that allows or denies specific actions,
e.g.:

``` javascript
var PostsController = function PostsController() {
  // ...
  this.before('delete', app.requires_permission('delete-post'));
  // ...
};
```

Each permission must be defined in the application as function that accespts two
params: `req` and `next`:

``` javascript
var app = new nodeca.Application(__dirname, function bootstrapper() {
  var config = this.config; // shortlink

  this.define_permission('delete-post', function (req, next) {
    var err; // error object should be defined if access is forbidden
    next(err);
  });
});

Commit message:

Improved info about settings storage

docs/specs/settings-and-permissions.md, after:

Settings and Permissions
========================

Settings Storage
----------------

Each application keeps it's settigns as YAML file as `config/defaults.yml`. To
keep files "clean" enough you can "extract" some parts as external files. For
example let's say you have file `config/policies.yml` with following contents:

``` yaml
allow_delete_thread: false
allow_change_topic:  true
```

Now you can add it into your `config/defaults.yml` as follows:

``` yaml
secret: d34dc0de
policies: !include policies.yml
```

So the resulting config will become:

``` yaml
secret: d34dc0de
policies:
  allow_delete_thread: false
  allow_change_topic:  true
```

After applcation being bootstrapped, all loaded configs are updated and extended
with values from database.

Administrator's interface is built from default settings. To make names of
settigns more valuable, they are replaced with corresponding titles from
`config/settigns.yml` file, which looks like:

``` yaml
secret: "Application secret"
policies: ["Application permission policies", "Optional description of setting"]
policies.allow_delete_thread: "Allow user delete threads"
```


Structure of Settings
---------------------

Each settings consist of:

* name, string, e.g. `max_open_posts`
* value, mixed type

Value of each settigns may be:

* boolean
* string
* integer
* array

Value may be complex object as well, e.g.:

``` yaml
allow_delete_post:
  must_be_owner: true
  during_period: 30 mins
  must_be_last_post: true
```

By default latest definition overrides previous one. But sometimes you need
completely remove value, for this purpose use delete tag:

``` yaml
allow_delete_post: !delete
```

_NOTICE_ Value of `!delete` tag is not used at all, so these two variants are
absolutely equal:

``` yaml
allow_delete_post: !delete true
allow_hang_the_dj: !delete false
```


Defining Permissions
--------------------

Permissions are precompiled functions that allows or denies specific actions,
e.g.:

``` javascript
var PostsController = function PostsController() {
  // ...
  this.before('delete', app.requires_permission('delete-post'));
  // ...
};
```

Each permission must be defined in the application as function that accespts two
params: `req` and `next`:

``` javascript
var app = new nodeca.Application(__dirname, function bootstrapper() {
  var config = this.config; // shortlink

  this.define_permission('delete-post', function (req, next) {
    var err; // error object should be defined if access is forbidden
    next(err);
  });
});
