docs/brainstorm/router.md, before:

# Router

For server and client purposes we use [CrossRoads][router] router.
Routes are described in YAML and then later on bounded to `nodeca.router`.

Example:

``` yaml
--- # file: ./config/routes.yml
routes:
  "/f{forum_id}/":
    to: forums.list
    params:
      forum_id: /\d+/
  "/f{forum_id}/index{page}.html":
    to: forums.list
    params:
      forum_id: /\d+/
      page: /[2-9]|[1-9]\d+/
  "/f{forum_id}/thread{thread_id}.html":
    to: forums.threads.show
    params:
      forum_id: /\d+/
      thread_id: /\d+/
  "/f{forum_id}/thread{thread_id}-{page}.html":
    to: forums.threads.show
    params:
      forum_id: /\d+/
      thread_id: /\d+/
      page: /[2-9]|[1-9]\d+/
  "/f{forum_id}/thread{thread_id}-{goto}.html":
    to: forums.threads.redirect
    params:
      forum_id: /\d+/
      thread_id: /\d+/
      goto: [ 'new-post', 'last-post' ]
  "/search/{group}/":
    to: search
    params:
      group:
        default: 'forums'
        match: /\w+/
  "#/users/profile/{user_id}/{tab}":
    to: users.profile
    params:
      user_id: /\d+/
      tab: [ 'general', 'last-msgs' ]
```


#### Options

-   **to**: Mandatory. Server method to be called.
-   **params**: Optional. Parameters rules hash of key => rules.
    Each rule might be either `String` or `Object` that consist of fields:
    -   *match* Mandatory. Rule to match value of param, `Array` or `RegExp`
    -   *required* Optional. Default: false.
    -   *default* Optional. Default value of param.
    Specifing rule as string is a shorthand syntax for `{ match: <rule> }`
-   **name**: Optional. Used to give route unique name to simplify usage within
    view helpers.


#### Direct Invocators with Default Route

Sometimes we want API methods to be mapped strightly to HTTP request. For this
purpose we use *default route* rule which looks like:

`/!{methodname}?param1=val1&...&paramN=valN`

For security purposes methods are invoced by "default route" only if they are
listed in the `direct` whitelist.

``` yaml
--- # file: ./config/routes.yml
direct:
  forums.threads.show: on
  search: on
```


#### Helpers

TBD

Upon application start we read YAML description of routes and configure server
router with given definition. Parsed router configuration is sent to client as
part of the client config under `router` section.

Router config is used for:

- find apropriate server method when parsing URL on client
- make SEO link for server method.

Helper that builds SEO links have signature of:

``` javascript
// tries to find apropriate URL y server method and arguments
link_to(nodeca.server.forums.threads.redirect,
        {forum_id: 123, thread_id: 123, goto: "new-post"});

// or use "named" route
link_to("forums.threads/new-post", {forum_id: 123, thread_id: 123});
```

[router]: https://github.com/millermedeiros/crossroads.js

Commit message:

Adds info about second hash sign

docs/brainstorm/router.md, after:

# Router

For server and client purposes we use [CrossRoads][router] router.
Routes are described in YAML and then later on bounded to `nodeca.router`.

Example:

``` yaml
--- # file: ./config/routes.yml
routes:
  "/f{forum_id}/":
    to: forums.list
    params:
      forum_id: /\d+/
  "/f{forum_id}/index{page}.html":
    to: forums.list
    params:
      forum_id: /\d+/
      page: /[2-9]|[1-9]\d+/
  "/f{forum_id}/thread{thread_id}.html":
    to: forums.threads.show
    params:
      forum_id: /\d+/
      thread_id: /\d+/
  "/f{forum_id}/thread{thread_id}-{page}.html":
    to: forums.threads.show
    params:
      forum_id: /\d+/
      thread_id: /\d+/
      page: /[2-9]|[1-9]\d+/
  "/f{forum_id}/thread{thread_id}-{goto}.html":
    to: forums.threads.redirect
    params:
      forum_id: /\d+/
      thread_id: /\d+/
      goto: [ 'new-post', 'last-post' ]
  "/search/{group}/":
    to: search
    params:
      group:
        default: 'forums'
        match: /\w+/
  "#/users/profile/{user_id}/{tab}":
    to: users.profile
    params:
      user_id: /\d+/
      tab: [ 'general', 'last-msgs' ]
```


Note that we match from left side of the URL till the question mark (start of
query) or hash sign (anchor). Query params wille mixed into params hash. Anchor
will be mixed passed as `anchor` param. For example, accroding to the route map
above, URL `/f91/thread246721.html#post2794384` will cause transformation into
API tree call as:

``` javascript
nodeca.server.forums.threads.show({
  params: {
    forum_id: 91
    thread_id: 246721
  },
  anchor: 'post2794384'
}, callback);
```


#### Options

-   **to**: Mandatory. Server method to be called.
-   **params**: Optional. Parameters rules hash of key => rules.
    Each rule might be either `String` or `Object` that consist of fields:
    -   *match* Mandatory. Rule to match value of param, `Array` or `RegExp`
    -   *required* Optional. Default: false.
    -   *default* Optional. Default value of param.
    Specifing rule as string is a shorthand syntax for `{ match: <rule> }`
-   **name**: Optional. Used to give route unique name to simplify usage within
    view helpers.


#### Direct Invocators with Default Route

Sometimes we want API methods to be mapped strightly to HTTP request. For this
purpose we use *default route* rule which looks like:

`/!{methodname}?param1=val1&...&paramN=valN`

For security purposes methods are invoced by "default route" only if they are
listed in the `direct` whitelist.

``` yaml
--- # file: ./config/routes.yml
direct:
  forums.threads.show: on
  search: on
```


#### Helpers

TBD

Upon application start we read YAML description of routes and configure server
router with given definition. Parsed router configuration is sent to client as
part of the client config under `router` section.

Router config is used for:

- find apropriate server method when parsing URL on client
- make SEO link for server method.

Helper that builds SEO links have signature of:

``` javascript
// tries to find apropriate URL y server method and arguments
link_to(nodeca.server.forums.threads.redirect,
        {forum_id: 123, thread_id: 123, goto: "new-post"});

// or use "named" route
link_to("forums.threads/new-post", {forum_id: 123, thread_id: 123});
```

[router]: https://github.com/millermedeiros/crossroads.js
